{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16740\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 ; Shreya Shukla\
; Intro CS1\
; HW #41: Moldy\
; 2019-01-06\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Explanation:\
SETUP causes randomly dispersed red turtles to be created in the world. The number of red turtles created is controlled by the population slider.\
When the GO button is clicked, the red turtles start wiggling around randomly as they produce a green substance. The substance is not created by all red turtles; in fact, only a certain amount of turtles produce it (this is observed by changing the population number- more substance is produced when there are more turtles and less substance is produced when there are less turtles).\
\
The substance is represented by green patches- some red turtles turn the patch they are currently on to the color green when the GO forever button is on. When other red turtles come into contact with these green-patch turtles, they also start coloring their patches green. The ability to produce the green substance spreads from turtle to turtle, and as the turtles move around, patches temporarily become green.\
\
What\'92s interesting is that the substance-producing turtles somehow detect each other and move towards each other. They aggregate into large groups of substance-producing turtles. When a substance-producing turtles is surrounded by other substance-producing turtles on neighboring patches, it\'92s substance color (AKA patch color) changes from green to white. The result is multiple groups of red turtles with white patches.\
\
How accurate is my breakdown of the mechanics?\
My explanation was mostly accurate- the red turtles are slime cells which produce a chemical called cyclic AMP. The chemical works in waves (meaning it spreads from cell to cell) and causes them to aggregate into a group in order to work as a single, larger organism. They are able to detect each other from a certain distance, after they have a certain amount of chemical. From here, they move towards each other and form a huge entity of slime mold cells. \
\
My only misconception was that I thought the substance color changed from green to white immediately, when in reality, the substance simply turned lighter shades of green after coming into contact with other turtles. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx10800\ri7222\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Noteworthy slider settings that I found cool:\
Pop- 1475 	wiggle-angle- 40 	 bias- 0   threshold- 5.  angle - 45\
When the cell population and the sniff-threshold were at it\'92s maximum (1475 and 5, respectively), the model behaved weirdly. Within the first few seconds, the entire world was covered in white-substance patches, but then green patches spontaneously started appearing. The area of green patches started off as misty and small, but quickly spread like comets (or tadpoles) and dominated the world in multiple shades.  Finally, all the green chemical dissipated and the majority of the world became black. Furthermore, when I increased the speed and let the model run, all the turtles accumulated into one big group of cells\
\
Pop- 120 wiggle-angle- 40 	 bias- 0   threshold- 1.8  angle - 45\
Because the cell population was very low, and the threshold was relatively high, the cells were never able to detect each other in high quantities and accumulate into the expected white groups of turtles. For this reason, they kept on moving around randomly and alternating between different shades of green or plain black. However, when threshold was 0, they did not need any chemical to detect each other and quickly formed into groups. \
\
Broader implications? Relevance of this model to our course?\
The results of my experimentation show that multiple factors control the behavior of slime cells. The cells do not merge when the chemical threshold is very high, because they have high resistance to cAMP. Nor do the cells merge when the population is low, or the bias is at a extremely high or low degree level. (However, when population is extremely high, the cells merge almost immediately and form a group).\
The function of the model changes in response to different inputs. Although the main purpose of the model was to form a single, multicellular slime organism, the model was also used to show conditions where the cells would remain distinct. All in all, the model is very adaptive.\
\
I think the relevance of this model to our course is that it shows how computer science can be used to graphically represent a variety of real life procceses. This biological model of slime cells is a example of computational biology, one of the many applications of computer science. It allows us to understand the relationship between an organism\'92s environment and its behavior- the slime cells aggregate and separate in response to different stimuli.\
Computer models are flexible and can deal with dynamic situations and changing variables. They are very useful and can be manipulated to predict the results of certain inputs.\
\
Other things I found cool:\
When I changed the wiggle bias to the extreme ends of the slider (-40 degrees leftwards or 40 degrees right), the turtles started rotating around themselves at extremely high speeds. They resembled spinning tops (because they were spinning a consistent axis) and never joined to form a singular group.\
}